Wouldn't it be nice if you had
this big object here of me, right,
that has my name, and location,
like a street address.
I definitely do live on
500 Fakestreet in Seattle.
If I could make a function
on there that would
nicely print out the shipping address,
right?
So that's what this get address
action will do for us, right?
Let's actually make this
just a tiny bit clearer.
So first name, last name,
right, street number,
street, city, state, zipCode, and country.
This is obviously very US centric,
but it's what I know.
[LAUGH] I don't send too many
letters to Thailand, for example.
So let's talk a second about,
I have this object, me, right?
And I'm trying to write a function
that pulls out information
that exists on the object that
it was created on, right?
So I have this getAddress function, so
that I can call me.getAddress here, right?
How do I refer to other parts of
the object of the object that I'm on.
This, that's what this is right here.
So I say this.name.first, right?
This refers to me, right?
So it would be like saying,
if I'm doing this.name.first,
it would be like the same thing of
here is doing me.name.first, right?
So that's what this does, is it refers to
the object that you're on at the moment.
This is called context, right?
In this case,
it's relatively straightforward that
this.name comes from the same
object that it's on.
But I will tell you that it's very
easy to muddy the waters here.
[LAUGH] I don't really wanna get
into the crazy depth of how bent
out of shape you can make this,
but yeah, this is good.
Yeah, question.
>> Yeah, are these classes
that you're creating, and
then calling whenever you see the dots and
the colons?
>> The dots and the colons.
Okay, so-.
>> If you're making a class, I don't know.
>> You're on the right track for sure.
We're in the same realm of information.
So class is a really loaded word and
it depends on which language
you're talking about.
I'm assuming it's more like a Java
context that you're talking about,
what class is with, but it can apply-
>> I think JavaScript has classes.
>> It does, so you can do it
>> Maybe I am thinking about Java, okay.
>> No, it's totally okay, and
we'll demystify it a little bit,
cuz I'm sure someone else is wondering
the same thing, it's a good question.
I don't really wanna get
too much into classes,
but you can say class Car, right?
And it can have a go function, right?
You're creating a type of object,
it's like a blueprint for an object.
And so if I wanted a car,
I would have to say const, I don't know,
civic = new Car like this.
And you have to use this new thing
here to get the actual civic.
This would be now an object
that has a go function on it.
>> Okay, got it, I think yeah, understand.
>> So the civic that you would get would
end up being an object just like this
one, right?
This one, we're just directly creating
an object without creating a class in
between it.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah, if all this was gibberish to you,
then I just said go on and ignore it,
because JavaScript is not programmed
like you program Java and
some of those other more, they're called
object-oriented programming models.
You can, and I'm imploring you to not.
It's not a good way to write JavaScript,
unless that there's anything wrong with
doing that in Java or anything like that.
It's just JavaScript is not built for
object-oriented programming
the way that Java is.
So very similar to a class,
it's just an instance of a class or
it's just an object.
Okay, back to this.
Yeah, you can really
bend this out of shape.
It becomes important of where you call.
So here, I say me.getAddress.
So I'm calling it off of me,
which means that this here
ends up being correct, right?
So you end up seeing here, I get
the correct address out here at the end.
I just wanna show you how this can break.
If I say const func, let's just call it,
what do I call here, getAddress,
pulledOutGetAddress = me.getAddress.
So what I've done is I now have this
function here that I pulled out of
it, right?
I pulled it out of the me function here,
right?
And now, I think if I call
console.log(pulledOutGetAddress) and
I invoke that, undefined,
undefined, undefined,
undefined, undefined, undefined, right?
It's not bound to this me, right?
So when you call this here, it doesn't
know what you're looking for, right?
So it matters how you call the function,
Super weird.
I don't really expect you to
remember this or know it, but
I want you to know that
there are dangers with this.
Again, there's entire
courses on the topic,
definitely check out the JavaScript
Learning Path in Frontend Masters.
This will get into a lot of
depth of what context can be.
And they love to ask junior developers
these questions when they do job
interviews.
So it's worth your time to invest to
figuring out how contexts works in a bunch
of different lights.
I could spend the next two hours
explaining to you ways to bend this and
break this.
I don't think that's beneficial
to you right now in your journey.
So I just want you to know it's out there,
it exists, it can break, but
just know that it matters how you call it.
Yeah, I'm gonna hand wave away
the rest of this conversation,
cuz I don't think it's useful for
us to get into a lot of depth here.
Because it's either we go way deep in
this and spend another hour on it or
we keep going and
just accept that this is complicated.
Is that okay?
I don't think it's useful to go any
deeper than that.
>> But you don't change
the me.getAddress to this,getAddress?
Can it work then?
Isn't that still calling me?
>> If I say down-
>> Or
where you have the pulledOutGetAdress
where it says me, if you just do this.
>> So good question.
What is this here?
What does this refer to?
>> It's outside of the bracket.
>> Yeah, so question mark, all right?
It's probably a window, I'm gonna guess.
,yeah, we can get rid of this.
Object window, What is window?
Window is the overarching
context that everything runs in.
So you can say,
So for example,
when you call Math like this,
it's actually technically
calling window.Math.
So all those unprefixed,
globally available objects are technically
on window, it's just implied
when you don't put it there.
So that's what this is, right?
If I say this here, it's window.
>> Okay.
>> So that's why it's called context,
super contextual about what you call this.
And it's important that you know
that it's out there what this is,
cuz it's everywhere.
You're definitely gonna see it in lots and
lots of places.
But you need to be super
careful about what this is.
So anytime that you see this,
I want you to stare at it as,
okay, what is this right now?
And it's, well, I mean,
I made a really good point here.
This is running the same code twice,
but this is different.
And it's the exact same code, but
where it's called makes this different,
which is weird, right?
It's, It just matters
of where it's called.
Yeah, cool, we'll leave it at that.
You can actually fix this, so
it actually pulled out, it would work.
I hesitate to show you, but
let's do it, .bind(me).
And this would have to be me.
Because I call this .bind, which is
a function built onto functions, which I
understand sounds a little strange, but
functions have built-ins as well, right?
By calling .bind on this, I am now
grafting these two together permanently,
right?
So now,
whenever you call pulledOutGetAdress,
you're saying this is always
going to refer to the me object.
And now, it works, continually, it's fine.
That's what this bind thing does.
There's other ways to fix it,
but we'll leave it at that.
That's fine, that works for now.
But yeah, that's what bind is for,
bind is for
changing the context of something,
if you wanna change what me is.
If you had something else where
you had a different object,
You could actually use bind
to mess with what this is.
At this point, you're in some sort of
meta level programming that I don't,
you're in a special kinda hell that I do
not suggest you get yourself into, right?
For the most part, it's just gonna be
avoided by just not relying on this and
particularly on the changing
context of what this can be.
This goes back to don't
write too clever of code.
Just because you can
doesn't mean you should.
Okay, questions about that?
Does that make sense?
I've kinda drawn a circle around this
context black box that if you wanna
peek into Pandora's box, again,
check out Frondend Masters courses.
I imagine it's probably one of
Kyle Simpson's courses that deals with
context and depth.
So definitely check that out.
You'll get on it if you're on
the JavaScript learning path.
And again, if you're trying to go out and
interview for junior developer jobs,
just definitely one more studying,
because they love to ask that question.
They'll do something like,
What is this log right here?
They won't show you the results,
they'll just show you the code here.
And what will you see if you do this?
And you have to say, well,
it'll be a bunch of undefined.
So they're like, okay,
how would you fix it, blah, blah, blah,
all sorts of stuff like that.
Okay, So this goes into what
we were talking about earlier.
What is this outside of anything?
It's this thing called window.
Window is kind of like this overarching
context that everything executes in.
If something doesn't have a context,
its context is window.
So for example,
there's things onto window.
We saw math, we saw console,
console's built under window as well.
So when I say console.log, right,
you're actually saying window.console.log,
right?
Or there's scrollY.
So right now, all these code snippets
execute immediately
when you load the page.
So if I change this, this will actually be
what my scroll position is on the page,
how far I scrolled down
in the y direction.
So if I scroll up and change it again,
notice that it changes, or
if I scroll down again, again, up.
But if I don't scroll,
it just ends up being the same, right?
There's lots of things on the window.
There's also scrollX in my direction, but
as you probably imagine, I'm not scrolled
in any direction, because of this page
just let you scroll side to side.
You can also do totally,
I'm pretty sure, scrollY like this.
So all of these three
things are exactly the same
Question about window?
Only applies in the browser, by the way.
If you ever start working in Node-js,
which is JavaScript on the back end,
whole course on that from Scott Moss from
Frontend Masters, window doesn't exist.
For most of you taking this course,
you are focusing on frontend development,
right, which means that you'll always
have a window available, right?
But something to keep in
the back of your mind.
So yeah, this is a good thing for
you to kinda keep in mind.
A generally mostly applicable rule of
thumb of what this is going to be is if
you're inside of an object of some sort,
this will be the object
that you're inside of.
If you're not inside of an object of any
sort, generally a good rule of thumb is
that if you're inside of an object, and
if you're working on some sort of object,
this will be the object
that you're working on.
So a good example is
the me object up here.
This is gonna generally refer to
the object that I'm working on,
which will be the me object
at this moment, right?
So that's one thing.
If you're working outside of that,
probably going to be window.
Where it gets really dicey is where you're
invoking functions that you've pulled out
of other objects or things like that.
That can make the context
change kind of unexpectedly,
would be a good way of putting that.
Makes sense?
Cool, I think I've given
you enough context for
you to be aware of what this is.
For the most part,
you don't really need to use it too much.
But I do wanna introduce it to you
cuz you'll see it in code samples.
Or if you start writing things like react,
which is like a framework for JavaScript,
it'll use this in places and
you'll see it.
So I just want you to be aware of what
it is and how to learn more about it.
And I left a link here to one
of Kyle Simpson's courses,
where he talks more in depth on it.